---
title: Reset
author: jay
type: post
date: 2005-10-12T02:56:09+00:00
url: /2005/10/12/reset/
categories:
  - Reflections
  - Uncategorized

---
Two things going on at work &#8211; with myself &#8211; that need to be nipped in the bud.

One of the feeds I have in my aggregator is the [Creating Passionate Users][1] site. It’s what I’d long to be, and never quite make it. While I can deal without the hokey graphics, the writing is superb, and the ideas deep &#8211; each and every time. The feed might hold the record for “most flagged entries in NetNewsWire to read later”

The [Death by Devil’s Advocate][2] article hit home for me this week. I’ve done a lot of that in my career &#8211; killing ideas, many even my own, by analyzing them to death.

I’m not exactly sure why I do this. I don’t know if it’s an “IT” tendency to keep from over-extending oneself and the infrastructure into some unmanageable mishmash, but an awful lot of ideas get killed by imagining possible negatives. And I’ve been doing that a little too much these past few weeks &#8211; it’s the only side I think my co-worker has seen, and too much a side that my boss is seeing. And I don’t like how it looks in the mirror. I need to rip out the negative nabob and pipe it to /dev/null.

I realized tonight that I’m planning these hardware installs like I play SimCity. I never could play SimCity and win with the regular rules. When SimCity 3000 came out for Windows, what I did was find the cheat codes to give me unlimited funds, pause the game, and then I proceeded to build my entire city for hours, and only when I had all the grids laid out perfectly, the roads where I wanted, all of the electric and pipes ran, did I unpause the game and let the city run.

I’ve done similar with the eXtension infrastructure &#8211; I’ve bought all the hardware and support equipment (even down to the label printer) &#8211; and I’m making sure I understand all of the little things &#8211; e.g. the Dell Remote Access Card, the Raid controller, BMC, the Xserve install options, that all my cables and devices are labeled, etc. And while I do plan on making sure I’ve got authentication and backup strategies working before I unleash the rest of eXtension into the infrastructure, what I need to make sure I’m not doing, is building the entire city on pause before I press “Go”. There’s time enough for moving the city around after it’s started growing.

 [1]: http://headrush.typepad.com/
 [2]: http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2005/10/death_by_devils.html